I know you agree.
Your Gilead training has been a gift
—a gift from Jehovah, Jesus Christ,
and “the faithful and discreet slave.”
Have you thought about how
you’re going to share your gift
and allow others
to benefit from your training
when you return to your assignment?
It’s a good question.
When we get back
to the busyness of a routine,
perhaps the stress and anxieties
of increased responsibility,
sharing a gift may be
the last thing on your mind.
So it’s good to think about it now.
What will help you to strengthen,
encourage, motivate,
and instruct those who you oversee
—your workmates, your brothers
and sisters in the congregation?
We can learn much from the way
Jesus dealt with people.
Like you, Jesus was entrusted
with a beautiful gift.
Unlike you and me,
Jesus had some amazing abilities.
For example, he could read hearts.
The Scriptures describe an occasion
when Jesus responded to a man’s thoughts,
rather than to his words.
Do you think Jesus’ ability
to know what his audience was thinking
and feeling enhanced his effectiveness
as he shared his gift?
Of course.
But interestingly, the Scriptures reveal
that Jesus dignified people
in the way he communicated with them.
He often asked meaningful questions
and listened attentively to the answers
before he shared his gift.
For a few minutes this morning,
let’s consider two occasions
when Jesus did just that.
In doing so, we’ll get some pointers
that will assist you
to be effective in sharing
your gift of Gilead training.
The first account is found
in the Bible book of Mark chapter 10.
Let’s turn there together.
Mark chapter 10, beginning in verse 35:
“James and John, the sons of Zebedee,
“approached him and said to him:
“‘Teacher, we want you to do for us
“whatever we ask of you.’
“He said to them:
“‘What do you want me to do for you?’
“They replied: ‘Grant us to sit down,
one at your right hand
and one at your left, in your glory.’”
The parallel account in Matthew
reveals that James and John
did not approach Jesus on their own.
They had their mother do it for them.
Do you think,
as this woman approached Jesus,
he knew what she wanted?
Probably.
How did he deal with her?
Did he interrupt her? reprimand her?
No.
Instead, he asked a question:
“What do you want me to do for you?”
The second account is just a few verses down
—Mark chapter 10, beginning in verse 46.
Here we learn about a blind beggar
named Bartimaeus.
He sat by the road, and when he heard
that Jesus was passing by,
he called out: “Son of David, Jesus,
have mercy on me!”
The crowd tried to quiet him,
but Bartimaeus called out even more loudly.
“Jesus stopped
and said: ‘[Bring] him to me.’”
Now Bartimaeus had an audience
with the Son of God.
How did Jesus address Bartimaeus?
In verse 51: “Jesus said to him:
“‘What do you want me to do for you?’
“The blind man said to him: ‘Rabboni,
“let me recover my sight.’
“And Jesus said to him: ‘Go.
“Your faith has made you well.’
“And immediately he recovered his sight,
and he began to follow Jesus on the road.”
“What do you want me to do for you?”
The same question is in both accounts
but very different situations.
Why do you think Jesus asked this question?
Well, he accomplished
at least four things.
What were they?
Well, first of all,
he dignified his audience
by encouraging communication.
Number two,
he allowed his audience to reveal
what was in his or her heart
to put it on the table, as it were.
In his dealings with James and John,
the question actually protected Jesus
and gave him an opportunity
to give those two apostles
a valuable lesson in modesty:
‘This matter of giving
the right and left places
in the Kingdom is not mine to give.’
Finally, in the case of Bartimaeus,
would you agree that the question
provided an opportunity
to strengthen Bartimaeus’ faith
and to give him effective assistance,
allowing Bartimaeus to articulate his desire?
“What do you want?”
And then to experience
the immediate realization
would have left no doubt in Bartimaeus’ mind
that he had been considered.
And how did it affect him?
Well, the account says:
“He began to follow [Jesus]
on the road.”
It’s a beautiful example
of asking a question
that helps you to share your gift.
When I was
a newly appointed circuit overseer,
the elders in a congregation
that I was serving
expressed concern about a sister
who was missing meetings.
They asked me if I would be willing
to make a shepherding visit.
Of course, I was happy to do that.
The arrangements were made.
Another elder accompanied me,
and I shared all of the appropriate verses
about meeting attendance.
The sister listened,
and as we were leaving,
she looked me in the eye,
and she said, “You don’t have a clue.”
At the time,
I thought she was being disrespectful.
But as I thought about it,
I came to wish
that instead of showing up
with all the appropriate verses,
I had showed up
with all of the appropriate questions.
“What do you want me to do for you?”
“How may I help?”
“What’s been happening in your life?”
Those kinds of questions
allow you to render meaningful assistance.
I learned from that experience.
I hope you can learn from my mistake.
Don’t make the mistake of thinking
you know what a person wants or needs.
Jesus did know, and he still asked.
Questions
—they dignify the audience;
they allow your listener to reveal
what is in his or her heart.
It may protect you,
and it allows you
to render meaningful assistance.
Approach your assignment
the way Jesus approached his.
“What do you want me to do for you?”
If you do,
not only will
you effectively share your gift,
you will be a gift wherever you serve.